Welcome. This week I
will teach you N-gram
language models.
This will allow you to write
your first program that
generates texts on its own.
First, I'll go over
what an N-gram is.
Then you'll estimate the
conditional probability
of an N-gram from
your text corpus.
Now what is an N-gram?
Simply put, an N-gram
is a sequence of words.
Note, that it's more
than just a set of
words because the
word order matters.
N-grams can also be
characters or other elements.
But for now, you'll be focusing
on sequences of words.
When you process the corpus,
the punctuation is
treated like words.
But all other special characters
such as codes will be removed.
Let's look at an example.
I am happy because
I am learning.
Unigrams for this corpus,
are a set of all
unique single words
appearing in the text.
For example, the word,
I, appears in the corpus twice.
But is included only once
in the unigram sets.
The prefix uni stands for one.
Bigrams are all sets of
two words that appear
side-by-side in the corpus.
Again, the bigram, I am,
can be found twice in the texts,
but it is only included
once in the bigram sets.
The prefix bi means two.
Also notice that the
words must appear next
to each other to be
considered a bigram.
Another example of
bigram is, I'm happy.
On the other hand, the
sequence, I happy,
does not belong to
the bigram sets
as that phrase does not
appear in the corpus.
I happy, is emitted
even though both
individual words I,
and happy, appear in the texts.
Trigrams represents
unique triplets of
words that appear in the
sequence together in the corpus.
The prefix tri means three.
Here's some notation
that's you're
going to use going forward.
If you have a corpus of
texts that has 500 words,
the sequence of words
can be denoted as W1,
W2, W3, all the way to W500.
The corpus length is denoted
by the variable M. Now,
for a sub-sequence
of that vocabulary,
if you want to refer to
just the sequence of
words from word 1 to word 3,
then you can denote it as
W subscript one,
superscripts three.
To refer to the last three
words of the corpus,
you can use the
notation W subscript
M minus 2 superscripts
M. Next you estimate
the probability of an
N-gram from a text corpus.
Let's start with unigrams.
For example, in this corpus,
I'm happy because I'm learning,
the size of the
corpus is M equals 7.
The counts of unigram
I is equal to 2.
So the probability
is 2 divided by 7.
For unigram happy,
the probability is equal
to 1 divided by 7.
The probability of a
unigram shown here as W,
can be estimated by
taking the counts of
how many times word W appears
in the corpus and then you
divide that by the total
size of the corpus M. This
is similar to the word
probability concepts
you used in previous weeks.
Now let's calculate the
probability of bigrams.
Let's start with an example and
then I'll show you
the general formula.
In the example, I'm happy
because I'm learning,
what is the probability
of the word, am,
occurring if the
previous word was I?
It would just be the
count of the bigrams,
I am, divided by the
count of the unigram I.
You get the count
of the bigrams,
I am, divided by the
count of the unigram I.
In this example,
the bigram I am,
appears twice and the unigram I,
appears twice as well.
The conditional probability
of M appearing given that I
appeared immediately before
is equal to 2 divided by 2.
In other words, the
probability of the bigram
I am is equal to 1.
For the bigram, I happy
the probabilities equal
to 0 because that sequence
never appears in the corpus.
Finally, bigram, am learning,
has a probability of 1/2.
That's because the word am,
followed by the
word Learning makes
up 1/2 of the bigrams
in your corpus.
Here's a general expression
for the probability of bigram.
The bigram is represented by
the word X followed
by the word Y.
The probability of the word Y
appearing immediately after
the word X is
the conditional probability
of word Y given X.
The conditional
probability of Y given
X can be estimated
as the counts of
the bigram X comma
Y and then you
divide that by the counts of
all bigrams starting with X.
This can be simplified
to the count of
the bigram X comma Y
divided by the counts
of all unigrams X.
This last step only works
if X is followed
by another word.
Let's calculate the
probability of some trigrams.
Using the same
example from before,
the probability of
the word happy,
following the phrase I am,
is calculated as 1
divided by the number
of occurrences of the phrase
I am in the corpus,
which is two.
The probability
of the trigram or
consecutive sequence of three
words is the probability
of the third word
appearing given that
the previous two words
already appeared in
the correct order.
This is the conditional
probability of the third word,
given that the previous two
words occurred in the texts.
The conditional probability
of the third word given
the previous two words is
the counts of all
three words appearing,
divided by the count of
all the previous two words
appearing in the
correct sequence.
Note that the notation for
the counts of all three words
appearing is written as
the previous two words,
denoted by W subscript
1 superscript 2,
separated by a space and then
followed by W subscript 3.
So this is just the counts
of the whole trigram,
written as a bigram
followed by a unigram.
What about if you want to
consider any number N?
Let's generalize the formula
to N-grams for any number n,
the probability of a word WN,
following the sequence
W1 to WN minus 1,
is estimated as the
counts of N-grams,
W1 to Wn divided by the count of
N-gram prefix W1 to WN minus 1.
Notice here that's the counts of
the N-gram for words W1 to
WN is written as counts of
W subscripts one
superscript N minus 1,
and then space W subscripts N.
This is equivalent to
C of W subscript 1
superscript N. By this
point you've seen N-grams
along with specific examples of
unigrams, bigrams and trigrams.
You've also calculated
their probability from
a corpus by counting their
occurrences. This great work.
Now you know what N-grams
are and how they can be
used to compute the
probability of the next word.
Next, you will
learn to use it to
compute probabilities
of whole sentences.